This lesson on graph analytics,
is about identifying and
tracking groups of interacting
entities in a network.
We call these groups communities.
Let's try to provide a more concrete
definition of communities in a network.
We multiply the definition
by this diagram,
showing a research study
on the Santa Fe Institute.
A theoretical research institute
located in Santa Fe, New Mexico, US.
They performed multidisciplinary
studies on fundamental principles
of complex adaptive systems.
The nodes in the graph are researchers.
And an edge exists
between two researchers,
if they collaborate with each other.
As you can see, there are distinct
groups among researchers.
A mathematically college researcher,
does not collaborate with researchers
who work on structure of the RNA.
So the graph,
is essentially a set of separate groups,
thinly connected through a handful
of cross-disciplinary researchers,
who collaborate across groups.
These groups are then the communities
in this collaboration graph.
What does this tell us?
It tells us that communities are highly
interacting clusters in a graph.
That is, they form pockets of
denser subgraphs that are more
connected to each other,
than to members of the other clusters.
Communities of humans, or otherwise,
are interesting things to study,
because it gives us an insight
into the interaction patterns.
And how they change with time.
Here, are some analytics
questions about communities.
We have divided them
into three categories.
Analytics questions that do not
depend on time, are called static.
Here, we ask questions about
the composition of the community,
how tight-knit members are connected,
and so forth.
In the second category, we involve the
formation, and evolution of the community.
Communities can form temporal,
for example,
around an event like a school shooting.
Or some communities,
despite the comings and
goings of members,
sustain themselves well.
A Facebook group, a political party,
fans of a music band,
are likely to continue over time,
and hence are non-transient.
One can also be interested in
the history of formation of a community,
like a criminal network.
The third category is about predictions.
Analysts would like to predict
how a community would grow.
Whether it's composition
of members might change.
Or whether there are emerging
power shifts within the community.
Now before we ask these questions,
however,
we need to first identify
communities in a large network.
To find communities, we need to
formalize the idea that there are more
connections within the community, and
fewer connections between two communities.
One way to achieve this, is to think
of dividing the degree of a node,
into an internal and
an external component.
The internal component is the count
of edges within community.
And the external degree, is the count
of edges outside the community.
An example,
will be to consider that my community
is where I live, that is San Diego.
And then count the number of my friends
within San Diego versus outside San Diego.
In the figure, the highlighted node
has four internal connections and
one external connection.
The next step, would be to think
of the internal degree, and
the external degree of an entire cluster.
We can sum up the internal degrees
of all nodes in a cluster.
And call it the internal
degree of the whole cluster.
And similarly,
sum the external degrees of the nodes,
to compute the external
degree of the cluster.
Now, we can define intra-cluster
density to be the ratio of the number
of internal edges of the cluster,
divided by the number of possible
connections inside the box.
The denominator is N cues 2.
Which is the number of pairwise
combination of nodes within the cluster.
We call this delta int.
Similarly, inter-cluster density,
delta x is the number
of inter-cluster edges divided by
the possible pairings between nC,
a node in the cluster, to n- nC,
the number of nodes outside the cluster.
There are two kinds of methods used for
finding communities in the network.
One of them focuses on local properties,
that is,
properties for which one only
looks at a node and its neighbor.
For the most ideal community
in a network is a subgraph,
where every node is connected to
every other node in the subgraph.
Such a structure is called a clique.
To find a perfect community
structure as a clique,
one can try to find the largest
clique within a graph, return cell.
That is a computationally
challenging problem.
It's much simpler to find cliques
if we know the value of k.
That means the number of
members in the clique.
We're going to show a simple
version of this in model three.
The more general problem has been
solved by complex algorithms,
that are beyond the scope of this course.
In the real world, perfect cliques larger
than three or four are harder to find.
So we need to relax the definition of it.
Now, there are two types of relaxations,
those based on distance,
and those based on density.
Two distance based definitions
are n-clique and n-plan.
We'll illustrate this over
a friendship graph shown here.
n-clique, is a subgraph,
such that the distance between each
node pair in that subgraph is n or less.
By this definition, Holly, Paul,
and Gary form a two clique.
That's a little awkward, isn't it?
Yeah.
They are within two
distance of each other.
But the two clique does not
include intermediate nodes that
connect the member nodes.
So, Mike, is not in the two clique.
This situation is corrected in n-clan.
Where, to belong to the n-clan,
the shortest part between any members,
without involving outsiders, is n or less.
Now, Holly, Mike,
Bill, Don, Harry, and
Gary form a two-clan.
Clearly, this group is more cohesive
than the two-clique we saw before.
n-clique and n-clan
are distance based measures for
finding cohesive groups of communities.
K-core is a density based method for
finding communities.
Let's look at the dark, orange subgraph.
Every node is connected to at least
three other nodes within the subgraph.
They form a 3-core.
Let's include the medium light
orange nodes in the subgraph now.
Each node is connected to at least two
other members within the subgraph,
they form a 2-core.
Relaxing further, we can add the light
orange nodes and the graph as a 1-core.